47495: Update Enterprise Installing an Embedded Cluster (#381)
replicatedhq/replicated-docs: docs/enterprise/installing-embedded-cluster.md

# Installing with the Kubernetes Installer

This section explains how to install an application and the Replicated admin console on a cluster created by the Replicated Kubernetes installer.

The Kubernetes installer is based on the open source kURL project, which is maintained by Replicated. For more information about installing with kURL, including advanced installation options, see the [kURL documentation](https://kurl.sh/docs/introduction/).

## Prerequisites

> Complete the following items before you perform this task:

Reviewer: s/ could remove the word "items"

When installing on a highly available cluster, the script prompts for a load balancer address. In the absence of a load balancer, all traffic is routed to the first primary node.

If you decide to use a load balancer, the load balancer must be a TCP forwarding load balancer. For more information, see [Prerequisites](#prerequisites).

The health check for an apiserver is a TCP check on the port that the kube-apiserver listens on. The default value is `:6443`.

For more information about the kube-apiserver load balancer, see [Create load balancer for kube-apiserver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/independent/high-availability/#create-load-balancer-for-kube-apiserver) in the Kubernetes documentation.

## Prerequisites

Complete the following before you perform this task:

- Meet the general system requirements. See [General System Requirements](installing-general-requirements)
- Meet the system requirements for the Kubernetes installer. See [Kubernetes Installer Requirements](installing-embedded-cluster-requirements)

> Additionally, if you are installing with high availability and want to use a load balancer, ensure that your load balancer is:

Reviewer 2: Throughout this doc, I would refer to this as an external load balancer to distinguish it from the internal load balancer. Since they will almost certainly use a load balancer if they're installing in HA, but these requirements will only be pertinent if they bring their own, not if they use the internal one.

- A TCP forwarding load balancer
- Configured to distribute traffic to all healthy control plane nodes in its target list

> - (Optional) Preconfigured by passing in the `load-balancer-address=<host:port>` flag

Reviewer 2: Oh great, you mention this here (I mentioned this flag in a comment above). Maybe we should similarly mention pre-configuring the internal load balancer.

## Install in an Online Environment

To install in an application and the admin console in an online environment, do one of the following:

- To install without high availability, run the installation command provided by the application vendor:

  ```bash

>   curl -sSL https://kurl.sh/APP-SLUG | sudo bash

Author: Thanks! This is an old tutorial, and I think there are many old kurl.sh references throughout the docs. I'll create an SC story to scrub the rest of the docs. But I fixed it for this tutorial.

  ```
  Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation command provided by the vendor.

- To install with high availability, run the installation command with the `-s ha` flag:

  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://kurl.sh/APP-SLUG | sudo bash -s ha
  ```
  Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation script provided by the vendor.

:::note

> With KOTS v1.67.0 and later, you can install a specific version of the application. Use the `app-version-label` flag and the version label for a particular version of your vendor's application. For example, `curl https://kurl.sh/supergoodtool | sudo bash -s app-version-label=3.1.0`.

Author: Good call.

    kubectl kots install APP-NAME \
      --airgap-bundle PATH-TO-AIRGAP-BUNDLE \
      --license-file PATH-TO-LICENSE-FILE \
      --config-values PATH-TO-CONFIG-VALUES \
      --namespace default \
      --shared-password PASSWORD
    ```
    Replace:
    * `APP-NAME` with the name for the application.
    * `PATH-TO-AIRGAP-BUNDLE` with the path to the `.airgap` bundle file.
    * `PATH-TO-LICENSE-FILE` with the path to the license file.
    * `PATH-TO-CONFIG-VALUES` with the path to the ConfigValues manifest file.
    * `PASSWORD` with a shared password.

    For more information about the `kots install` command, see [install](../reference/kots-cli-install) in the kots CLI documentation.

## Installing with the Kubernetes Installer in High Availability Mode

Both online and air gap installations can be installed in high availability (HA) mode with the Kubernetes installer.

When installing on a highly available cluster, the script prompts for a load balancer address. In the absence of a load balancer, all traffic is routed to the first primary node.

> If you decide to use a load balancer, the load balancer should be:

Reviewer: should --> must ?

- A TCP forwarding load balancer
- Configured to distribute traffic to all healthy control plane nodes in its target list

You can preconfigure the load balancer by passing in the `load-balancer-address=<host:port>` flag.

> The health check for an apiserver is a TCP check on the port that the kube-apiserver listens on (the default value is `:6443`).

Reviewer: s/ The parenthetical phrase could be its own sentence

For more information about the kube-apiserver load balancer, see [Create load balancer for kube-apiserver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/independent/high-availability/#create-load-balancer-for-kube-apiserver) in the Kubernetes documentation.

### Install with HA in an Online Environment

To install an application and the admin console with high availability in an online environment, run:

```bash

> curl -sSL https://kurl.sh/APP-SLUG | sudo bash -s ha

Reviewer: An idea as I'm reading these procedures back to back: Since the commands for installing with HA are the same just with the added `-ha` flag, maybe these can be turned into optional steps in the main procedures.

For the optional load balancer part, maybe that could be added to the prerequisites section. For example, "If you are installing on a high availability cluster and want to use a load balancer, ensure the your load balancer meets these requirements..."

```
Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation script provided by the vendor.

### Install with HA in an Air Gap Environment

To install an application and the admin console with high availability in an air gap environment:

1. Extract the `.tar.gz` file.

1. Run the following command:

    ```bash
    cat install.sh | sudo bash -s airgap ha
    ```

## Join Primary and Secondary Nodes

> You can generate commands in the admin console to join additional primary and secondary nodes.

Reviewer: Do you know what the context for this procedure is? It looks like the only other place we mention nodes on this page is where we say that if you don't use a load balancer, traffic goes to the primary node. Could be helpful to clarify the "why" on this section; I wasn't able to sort out how it fits in with installing.

(This could be a spin-off story if you think that's better. I think it would be addressing more of a content gap in terms of the "why")

# Installing with the Kubernetes Installer

This document explains how to install an application and the Replicated admin console on a cluster created by the Replicated Kubernetes installer.

:::note
With KOTS v1.67.0 and later, you can install a specific version of the application. Use the `app-version-label` flag and the version label for a particular version of your vendor's application. For example, `curl https://kurl.sh/supergoodtool | sudo bash -s app-version-label=3.1.0`.
:::

The Kubernetes installer is based on the open source kURL project, which is maintained by Replicated. For more information about installing with kURL, including advanced installation options, see the [kURL documentation](https://kurl.sh/docs/introduction/).

## Prerequisites

Complete the following before you perform this task:

- Meet the general system requirements. See [General System Requirements](installing-general-requirements).
- Meet the system requirements for the Kubernetes installer. See [Kubernetes Installer Requirements](installing-embedded-cluster-requirements).

Additionally, if you are installing in high availability mode:

>   - (Optional) If you are going to use the internal load balancer, you can preconfigure it by passing `| sudo bash -s ha ekco-enable-internal-load-balancer`.

Reviewer 2: Rereading it, I question this line since `| sudo bash` will already be there, and you really should just pass `-s ha ekco-enable-internal-load-balancer`, assuming they know how to do that. But that's not a dealbreaker, so I'm approving. Can handle separately if we want to.

Reviewer 2: Just to clarify this, because I don't know if it's clear as I reread it: the default command includes the `| sudo bash` part, so it might make more sense to tell people to just pass `-s ha ekco-enable-internal-load-balancer`, since that's the only net new thing they need to add. But like I said before, I can live with it either way if we want to just merge this.

Author: Typically, we are supposed to document the entire command line entry, even if something is already there. So something like this would be correct formatting (even though this is not a full command, just showing this for demo purposes):

`$ curl install`

Not sure if this helps?

Reviewer 2: If we're supposed to show the whole entry, then should we be showing all the way back to `curl` instead of starting in the middle with `| sudo bash`?

Author: Yep, I think so. I could open another PR to add the missing parts. Do you want to supply the full command here, s I'm not sure what it should be?

## Prerequisites

Complete the following before you perform this task:

- Meet the general system requirements. See [General System Requirements](installing-general-requirements).
- Meet the system requirements for the Kubernetes installer. See [Kubernetes Installer Requirements](installing-embedded-cluster-requirements).

Additionally, if you are installing in high availability mode:

  - (Optional) If you are going to use the internal load balancer, you can preconfigure it by passing `| sudo bash -s ha ekco-enable-internal-load-balancer`.

  - For an external load balancer, ensure that your load balancer is:
    - A TCP forwarding external load balancer.
    - Configured to distribute traffic to all healthy control plane nodes in its target list.
    - (Optional) Preconfigured by passing the `load-balancer-address=HOST:PORT` flag.

## Install in Online Environments

To install the admin console and an application in an online environment:

1. Run the installation command provided by the application vendor to install the admin console:

  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP_SLUG | sudo bash
  ```

>   Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation command provided by the vendor.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Replace `APP_SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation command provided by the vendor.
```

The health check for an apiserver is a TCP check on the port that the kube-apiserver listens on. The default value is `:6443`. For more information about the kube-apiserver external load balancer, see [Create load balancer for kube-apiserver](https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/independent/high-availability/#create-load-balancer-for-kube-apiserver) in the Kubernetes documentation.

### Install with HA in Online Environments

To install with high availability in an online environment:

1. Run the installation command with the `-s ha` flag to install the admin console:

    ```bash
    curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP_SLUG | sudo bash -s ha
      ```
    Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation script provided by the vendor.

1. If you did not preconfigure a load balancer, you are prompted during the installation. Do one of the following:

    - If you are using the internal load balancer, leave the prompt blank and proceed with the installation.

    - If you are using an external load balancer, pass the load balancer address:

      ```bash
      load-balancer-address=HOST:PORT

>       ```

Reviewer 2: So to pass the load balancer address in this case, there is just a prompt that asks you to input the address. So you're not passing a flag like is indicated here. I think we can just remove these three lines (and the lines below about replacing stuff) and tell them to pass the LB address. Let me know if that makes sense. They should know how to do this when they see it—it's just a standard input.

### Install with HA in Air Gapped Environments

To install with high availability in an air gapped environment:

1. Run the following commands:

  ```bash
  curl -LO https://k8s.kurl.sh/bundle/FILENAME.tar.gz
  tar xvzf FILENAME.tar.gz
  cat install.sh | sudo bash -s airgap ha
  ```

  Replace `FILENAME` with the name of the kURL air gap `.tar.gz` file.

  :::note
  You can construct the URL for the air gap bundle by prefixing the URL path for online installations with `/bundle` and adding `.tar.gz` to the end. For more information, see [Install in an Online Environment](#install-in-an-online-environment).
  :::

1. If you did not preconfigure a load balancer, you are prompted during the installation. Do one of the following:

    - If you are using the internal load balancer, leave the prompt blank and proceed with the installation.

    - If you are using an external load balancer, pass the load balancer address:

      ```bash
      load-balancer-address=HOST:PORT
      ```

      Replace:

      - `HOST` with the external load balancer host.

>       - `PORT` with the port number of the external load balancer.

Reviewer 2: Same as above. This stuff isn't really necessary because it's not a flag they're passing. They're literally just typing in the address at the prompt.

# Installing with the Kubernetes Installer

This document explains how to install an application and the Replicated admin console on a cluster created by the Replicated Kubernetes installer.

:::note
With KOTS v1.67.0 and later, you can install a specific version of the application. Use the `app-version-label` flag and the version label for a particular version of your vendor's application. For example, `curl https://kurl.sh/supergoodtool | sudo bash -s app-version-label=3.1.0`.
:::

The Kubernetes installer is based on the open source kURL project, which is maintained by Replicated. For more information about installing with kURL, including advanced installation options, see the [kURL documentation](https://kurl.sh/docs/introduction/).

## Prerequisites

Complete the following before you perform this task:

- Meet the general system requirements. See [General System Requirements](installing-general-requirements).
- Meet the system requirements for the Kubernetes installer. See [Kubernetes Installer Requirements](installing-embedded-cluster-requirements).

Additionally, if you are installing in high availability mode:

>   - (Optional) If your vendor has enabled the internal load balancer, you can preconfigure it by passing `| sudo bash -s ha ekco-enable-internal-load-balancer`.

Reviewer 2: Small thing… The vendor doesn't have to enable it—the flag _is_ what enables it. So it's more like, "If you are going to use the internal load balancer…"

Author: @ajp-io Ok, oh, I thought that the vendor had to include the ECKO add-on and configure it in the manifest on their end. But it sounds like you're saying the internal load balancer is included by default for all Kubernetes installers?

  - For an external load balancer, ensure that your load balancer is:
    - A TCP forwarding external load balancer.
    - Configured to distribute traffic to all healthy control plane nodes in its target list.

>     - (Optional) Preconfigured with the load balancer address by passing the `load-balancer-address=HOST:PORT` flag.

Reviewer 2: If you combine the preamble before the colon and this bullet as is, it would read, "ensure that your load balancer is preconfigured with the load balancer address." But the LB doesn't have to be preconfigured with the LB address—the installer does. So I think this is clearer.
```suggestion
    - (Optional) Preconfigured by passing the `load-balancer-address=HOST:PORT` flag.
```

Author: I made your change anyway. My question is really to help me understand this feature better. Thanks!

## Install in Online Environments

To install the admin console and an application in an online environment:

1. Run the installation command provided by the application vendor to install the admin console:

  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP_SLUG | sudo bash
  ```
  Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation command provided by the vendor.

1. Using the admin console URL and password that displays when the installation script finishes, upload the license file and install the application.

## Install in Air Gapped Environments

To install the admin console and an application in an air gapped environment:

1. Download and extract the kURL air gap `.tar.gz` file. The file only includes the Kubernetes and admin console components. It does not include the application.
1. Run the following commands:

    ```bash
    curl -LO https://k8s.kurl.sh/bundle/FILENAME.tar.gz

>     tar -xvzf FILENAME.tar.gz

Reviewer 2: The `curl` command does the download and the `tar` command here does the extraction, so that is a bit repetitive since step 1 says to download and extract. Maybe these should just be one step, or however you want to resolve that.

Reviewer 2: Down lower we just say, "Run the following commands," so we could do that again.

To install an application and the admin console in an online environment, do one of the following:

- To install without high availability, run the installation command provided by the application vendor:

  ```bash
  curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP_SLUG | sudo bash
  ```
  Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation command provided by the vendor.

- To install with high availability:

    1. Run the installation command with the `-s ha` flag:

      ```bash
      curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/APP_SLUG | sudo bash -s ha
      ```
      Replace `APP-SLUG` with the unique slug for the application. The application slug is included in the installation script provided by the vendor.

    1. If you did not preconfigure a load balancer, you are prompted during the installation. Do one of the following:

        - If you are using the internal load balancer, pass the following flag:

          ```bash
          ekco-enable-internal-load-balancer
          ```

        - If you are using an external load balancer, pass the following flag:

          ```bash
          load-balancer-address=HOST:PORT

>           ```

Reviewer 2: The flags would be passed to the install command above (e.g., `| sudo bash -s ha ekco-enable-internal-load-balancer`). That's the pre-configuring option. But if they don't preconfigure the load balancer (i.e., they don't pass one of those flags), then they are prompted for a load balancer address. Leaving it blank uses the internal load balancer, or you can pass the address of an external load balancer.

>           Replace `HOST:PORT` with the host and port number of the external load balancer.

Reviewer 2: At the end, do we need to mention how to install the application? You would just open the admin console and upload the license, but since the air gap instructions mention the `kots install` command for installing the app, should we mention the app here too? Or is this only about installing the cluster and we shouldn't mention the app?

Reviewer 2: Perfectly fine, thanks!

## Install in an Air Gapped Environment

To install an application and the admin console in an air gapped environment:

> 1. Download and extract the kURL air gap `.tar.gz` file. The air gap `.tar.gz` includes only the admin console components, which are required to install the application.

Reviewer 2: I assume this is trying to say that the .tar.gz file doesn't include the application, but it feels a bit incorrect to say that it only includes the admin console components. It includes all the Kubernetes cluster components and the admin console. So if my assessment of what this is trying to say is correct, this might be more accurate.
```suggestion
1. Download and extract the kURL air gap `.tar.gz` file. The air gap `.tar.gz` file only includes the Kubernetes and admin console components. It doesn't include the application.
```

1. Do one of the following:

    - To install without high availability, run:

      ```bash
      curl -LO https://k8s.kurl.sh/bundle/FILENAME.tar.gz

>       tar xvzf FILENAME.tar.gz

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      tar -xvzf FILENAME.tar.gz
```

      cat install.sh | sudo bash -s airgap
      ```

      Replace `FILENAME` with the name of the kURL air gap `.tar.gz` file.

    - To install with high availability:

      1. Run the following commands:

        ```bash
        curl -LO https://k8s.kurl.sh/bundle/FILENAME.tar.gz

>         tar xvzf FILENAME.tar.gz

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        tar -xvzf FILENAME.tar.gz
```

        cat install.sh | sudo bash -s airgap ha
        ```

        Replace `FILENAME` with the name of the kURL air gap `.tar.gz` file.

        :::note
        For both installation types, you can construct the URL for the air gap bundle by prefixing the URL path for online installations with `/bundle` and adding `.tar.gz` to the end. For more information, see [Install in an Online Environment](#install-in-an-online-environment).

>         :::

Reviewer 2: This note ends up nested under the "To install with high availability section", which to me makes it unclear that "both installation types" refers to HA and non-HA. It would make more sense if the note wasn't nested within one of those two types.

      1. If you did not preconfigure a load balancer, you are prompted during the installation. Do one of the following:

>           - If you are using the internal load balancer, pass the following flag:

Reviewer 2: Same comment here about the flags as above.

1. Install the application with the application `.airgap` bundle:

    ```
    kubectl kots install APP_NAME \
      --airgap-bundle PATH_TO_AIRGAP_BUNDLE \
      --license-file PATH_TO_LICENSE_FILE \
      --config-values PATH_TO_CONFIG_VALUES \
      --namespace default \
      --shared-password PASSWORD
    ```
    Replace:
    * `APP_NAME` with the name for the application.
    * `PATH_TO_AIRGAP_BUNDLE` with the path to the `.airgap` bundle file.
    * `PATH_TO_LICENSE_FILE` with the path to the license file.
    * `PATH_TO_CONFIG_VALUES` with the path to the ConfigValues manifest file.
    * `PASSWORD` with a shared password.

    For more information about the `kots install` command, see [install](../reference/kots-cli-install) in the kots CLI documentation.

## Join Primary and Secondary Nodes

You can generate commands in the admin console to join additional primary and secondary nodes to the cluster. Primary nodes run services that control the cluster. Secondary nodes run services that control the pods that host the application containers. Adding nodes can help manage resources to ensure that your application runs smoothly.

To add primary and secondary nodes:

> 1. (Air gap only) Download and extract the `.airgap` bundle on the remote node before running the join command.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this is actually referring to the application `.airgap` file. I think it is the `.tar.gz` file. The reason is, for air gap, you can't pull the join script from the internet (see how the command below is curling k8s.kurl.sh?). So instead, you have to have the `.tar.gz` file present on the remote node because it contains the `join.sh` script you're going to run.

1. In the admin console, click **Cluster > Add Node**.
1. Copy the command and run it on the node that you are joining to the cluster.

  **Example:**

  ```
  curl -sSL https://k8s.kurl.sh/my-test-app-unstable/join.sh | sudo bash -s \
  kubernetes-master-address=192.0.2.0:6443 \
  kubeadm-token=8z0hjv.s9wru9z \
  kubeadm-token-ca-hash=sha256:289f5c0d61775edec20d4e980602deeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeffffffffffggggggg \
  docker-registry-ip=198.51.100.3 \
  kubernetes-version=v1.19.16 \
  primary-host=203.0.113.6
  ```

> ## Install Previous Versions in an Online Environment

Reviewer 2: I'm curious about this part here. This looks like it's more related to the other PR we have in progress about installing previous versions of the application. Are you also adding some context on that as part of this PR? I wasn't sure if this got mixed up with this one or if it's intentional.

Author: Intentional, as we discussed, and we'll postpone making these changes in a future PR. For now, I restored the notes about --app-version-label

Thank you so much for meeting with me.
